---
title: Being lost, career edition
date: 2021-08-05
tags: [ jobs, culture ]
draft: true
---

_disclaimer_: This is not a techy post like the others. I mostly wrote this for
myself to get my thoughts in order. Why publish it? Because I believe that I'm
not alone and if this post can help even a single person (even if it's just the
relief of not being alone), it was worth it.

# Being lost, career edition

I'll start of by just saying this, I don't have answers for you if you came
here looking for one. But since you did came here, I'd ask you to keep reading,
since it might offer some comfort that you are not alone.

## How I got where I am

For the past few  months, I've been having a difficult time with my career and
what path I want to take. I graduated last year, right with the Corona pandemic
at the doorsteps. So I decided to play things safe, stick with the place that I
worked at as a student and hold out the pandemic. Nobody could have guessed the
duration of it, but few would have guessed that 18 months later, we'd still be in
it.

It was fine for about a year, after a year my mind started becoming restless. I
started wondering what I wanted to do in my life and where I actually wanted to
end up. Being young and dumb, I thought another job would help me find calrity
and that I just needed a change of scenery. Now here I am: 6 months, 2 jobs and a
whole many mistakes later. But still with the same issues.

I've learned along the way to trust more on my gut feeling and to be a bit more
dearing in life, but I still haven't answered those questions: what do I want to
do and where do I want to take my life. In search of at least some answers, I
took some time off, because the questions have been nagging at my head for the
past few weeks.

## How to work

For that past few days, I've been experimenting with some different styles of
work. Work from home, work in a "office" based environment or (what I believe to
be) full remote style. I did this for my own projects, so things I really like
doing.

_Work from home_: This means that most of the time you work from home within the
normal office hours, sometimes you go the office to "bond" with people and handle
meetings. The same rythm as the office still holds: standups, meetings,
sychronous communication. This is the style that we use at the job now. Lately,
some days we go back to the office, but generally most of the time is spend at
home. This was working for me: there is some extra personal time (no commute) and
during the normal breaks there is space to do personal tasks (groceries, meal
prep, sport, ...), but the synchronous work flow leaves not enough space to
completely work at your own pace and in your own time. But a couple of weeks ago
productivity fell to the ground, tasks were getting slow, I started making
excuses and I was becoming annoyed at myself. Even my own projects suffered from
this. All sort of motivation for "productive" things was gone. Clearly, this was
not working so I didn't do this during my time off.

_Office style_: This is the "classic" work style. Within office hours people go
to a place and work there together. It generally has some facilities available to
the people. Before the pandemic I worked like this for a couple of weeks and I
tried it again (I spent a couple days going to a coworking space). Conclussion: I
dislike office settings. I dislike the time needed to go to them, I dislike the
atmosphere in a lot of them, I dislike the interruptions they cause and I hate
the layouts of most them. They require me to wear headphones, since the sounds
are not background noise that easily fades away (phones going off, door opening
and closing, coffee machines grinding away, ...). Sometimes you need to wait to
get tea/coffee or for a bathroom break. Flex desks might be great, but it's no
fun having to clean up after somebody. I think I can rant on for a while about
offices. I will admitt that offices have their use cases, but the decision to
make use of them should come from the employees. 

_My idea of remote_: Work happens more asynchronous here. There are tasks that
need to be done by the end of the day a progress should be made, but it matters
that it gets done, not when it gets done. Progress is logged centrally so people
can see what happens and pick it up when I'm not working on it. Synchronous
meetings do still happen, but they are planned ahead and have concrete agendas
for them. The people are there to do something, they aren't there when it doesn't
matter for them. This leaves a lot of room for personal time and tasks. It also
comes with the added benefit of being able to work anywhere anytime. I can spend
a morning at home, working or doing chores, but I might as well spend a morning
in the local coffee bar around the corner. Or I can be somewhere in the
mountains, enjoying the views while working. Or it can be the middle of the night
when I can't sleep.

For me (and I think from my writing) it's clear what I prefer: it's the remote
one. I've started working on my personal projects again, picked up the slack on
the volunteering that I do and even started writing these blog posts again. All
things that I have not done productively and succesfully over the past 3 months.

## What's next?

As my time off is coming to an end, I'm gonna have to start looking to work this
remote model into the job that I have at the moment. No more sitting on the
side line waiting for opportunities to appear. I'm gonna pitch some ideas to the
company and see what comes from it. If they don't work out, maybe I should start
looking for a job that allows me to do these things.

I've also decided to trust my gut feeling a bit more. In the past I've somewhat
always withold myself. Afraid of being to forward or maybe just unsure of my
thoughts. A recent experience has learned me that I can trust my gut and that
thoughts are supposed to be shared.

I also think that there is some stuff that I could do better than what is out
there already. So maybe, just maybe I finally bite the bullet and start the
freelance job that I've been wanting to do for a very long time. Take a shot at
it and see where it ends up in a couple of months.

In the end I'm glad to have taken some REAL time to reflect back on my life and
where I am at the moment. Regardless of what comes next, I have a better idea of
where I want to go.
